 My workload went up from about, I don't know, 70 to 80 hours a week to probably 120. So, yeah, I go to sleep, I wake up, I work, I go to sleep, wake up work, do that seven days a week. I'll have to do that for a while. There's no choice. And you do 16 hour days and you work seven hours a week and you fly all over the place. And you go to these meetings constantly and people constantly criticize you for everything. It's amazing to me, I'm in your change in the world and you're giving yourself, why do you do this? So my wife says to me, why are you still working? Why are you still working? What are you doing here? Well, I think what I'm working on has an important effect on the future. In the case of Tesla, I can't wait to say that Tesla has significantly accelerated the advent of sustainable energy. Before Tesla, no one was doing electric cars and now as a result of Tesla, I think almost every major car company in the world has been building electric cars. And that's pretty big deal. But there's still a long way to go to transition the world to a sustainable energy economy. So we still have a lot of work ahead of us at Tesla, but that's our goal there. And then for SpaceX, I think it's important for the future to be exciting and for humanity's existence to be insured of the long term. I think we must become a multi-talented species and a space-bearing civilization. We're here like 4.5 billion years after Earth got started, 13.8 billion years into the age of the universe. And it's only now recently in the last 5,000 years that we even invented writing. I would say date the first civilization by when we were the first writing, which was in ancient Samaria around 5 or 6,000 years ago. So we've basically just been here for a very brief instance. A blink. All of human civilization is a blink of an eye if there wasn't eye on an evolutionary timescale. So I think it's important we take the actions to ensure that the light of consciousness continues. Because we should really view consciousness as a small candle and a vast darkness that makes it easily go out. I was working, doing research in Silicon Valley on a completely different subject and trying to start this company at the same time. And when it came time to decide, do graduates, studies, or don't want to start this company. And I decided to start the company. I had no money. So we found that an office was actually cheaper than an apartment in Silicon Valley. So we got this dinky little office that had a leaky roof. It was just the nastiest place you can imagine. And you lived in it too. And I lived in it too and showered at the YMCA. This lasted for about three or four months. And the reason we chose this office in addition to being really cheap was that there was an internet service provider on the floor below. So we were able to get really cheap internet access by drilling a hole in the floor and connecting to the server directly. Depending on how well you want to do, particularly if you're starting a company, you need to work super hard. So what is super hard to me? Well, when my brother and I were starting our first company, instead of getting an apartment, we just granted a small office and we slept on the couch. We were so hot up, we had just one computer. So the website was up during the day and I was coding at night. It was seven days a week all the time. So we briefly had a girlfriend in that period and in order to be with me, she had to sleep in the office. So we're called like every waking hour. That's the thing I would say, if you particularly if you're starting a company. And if you do a simple math, say like, if somebody else is working 50 hours and you're working 100, you'll get twice as much done in the course of a year as the other company. At what point in as you were raising him, did you think there might be something different about this little boy? From the age of three. Really? I just, he just reasoned with me so well and I didn't know how he could figure out things. I mean, he was three. And then I sent him to school early because he, and they said, you can't send him, you know, as the youngest person in the class. And I said, he really needs other stimulation as well. And the nice thing is that he took what he could do and actually implemented it. Many genius kids, they stay in a basement because they can't actually move ahead. I don't think I don't think kidnesterly wanted to be me. What's the worst part about it? I think people would like it that much. Well, most people wouldn't, but they can't be you. That's like some superhero type shit. You know, you wouldn't want to be spider-man. Sleep tight and Gotham City. I hope he's out there doing his job. It's very hard to turn it off. Yeah. What's the hardest part? It might sound great to turn it on, but what if it doesn't turn off? So when everybody leaves, it's just Elon, sitting at home, brushing his teeth, just bunch of ideas bouncing around your head. Yeah. All the time. When did you realize that that's not the case with most people? I think when I was, I don't know, 506 or something. I thought I was insane. Why'd you think you were insane? Because it was clear that other people do not, their mind wasn't exploding with ideas all the time. They weren't expressing it. They weren't talking about it all the time. And you realized by the time you were five or six, like, oh, they're probably not even getting this thing that I'm getting. No. It was just strange. It was like, hmm, strange. Where I grew up was extremely valid. I know a star replied. I said about my brother, actually. One accident. I did, I did, being my brother up. I just had, I don't know if this, I'd go, I held it. So when I was growing up, I was just an inherently very violent place. I got punched in the face many times. I always got beaten to death once. So, at many times. I think you have not been punched in the face with a fist. You don't know what you know, I do what it's like. There are people who've been in the rocketry business for decades. Yeah. Who say about you that you don't know what you don't know. Well, I suppose that's for anyone. How can anyone know what they don't know? When critics say you can't do this, your answer to them is we've done it. Now is the time to overrule this administration's alleged comedic community. You know, there are American heroes who don't like this idea. Neil Armstrong, Gene Cernan, have both testified against commercial spaceflight in the way that you're developing it. And I wonder what you think of that. I was very sad to see that because those guys are, yeah. You know, those guys are heroes of mine, so it's really tough. You know, I wish they would come and visit and see the hardware I was doing. And then I think that would change their mind. They inspired you to do this, didn't they? Yes. And to see them casting stones in your direction. It's difficult. Did you expect them to cheer you on? So they hope and they would. What are you trying to prove to them? What I'm trying to do is to make a significant difference in spaceflight and help make spaceflight accessible to almost anyone. And I hope for as much support in that direction as we can receive. I like to get things done. I like to be useful. That is one of the hardest things to do. Doing something useful for other people that I like doing. You know, Michael is like trying to use full things. Trying to maximize the probability that the future is good. Future exciting. Something you look forward to. You know, with Tesla, we're like trying to make things that people love. How do we, how do we keep buying that you really love? That really give you joy. It's so rare. I wish there were more things. That's what we're trying to do. Just to make things that somebody loves. You've said that this has been the toughest year for you, the most sort of past and year for you. Like why? Well, I mean, Tesla really faced a sphere threat of death due to the Model 3 production ramp. Essentially, the company was bleeding money like crazy. And if we didn't solve these problems in a very short period of time, we would die. And it was extremely difficult to solve them. How close to death did you come? We were in, in single-digit weeks. 22 hours a day, I think. How many years? Yeah, so 70s a week. Sleeping in the factory. I worked every, I worked in the paint shop. General assembly, body shop. You ever worry about yourself imploding? Like it just did too much? Yeah, absolutely. No one should. I put the spending hours into work. This is not good. I don't know if it's hard, I don't know. They should not do this. This is sort of very painful. Painful and what tends? It's because my hurts my brain and my heart. So it's, this is not recommended for anyone. I just did it because if I didn't do it, then Tesla, good chance has it would die. Work like hell. I mean, you just have to put in, you know, 80 hours, 80 to 100 hour weeks every week. So a lot of work? That the older things improve the odds of success. I mean, if other people are putting in 40 hour work weeks and you're putting in 100 hour work weeks, then even if you're doing the same thing, you know that you will achieve in four months when it takes them a year to achieve. How did you get the expertise to be the Chief Technology Officer of a rocket ship company? Well, I do have a physics background. That's helpful as a foundation. And then I read a lot of books and talked to a lot of smart people. Your self taught? Yeah. Well, self taught, yes, meaning I don't have an aerospace degree. So how did you go about acquiring the knowledge? Well, I read a lot of books, talked to a lot of people and have a great team. If you're creating a company or if you're joining a company, the most important thing is to attract great people. So either of you join a group that's amazing that you really respect or if you're building a company, you've got to gather great people. I mean, all the company is, is a group of people that have gathered together to create a product of service. And so depending upon how talented and hardworking that group is, and the group is, and the group of people that are focused, cohesively in a good direction, that will determine the success of the company. So do everything you can to gather great people if you're creating a company. In the beginning, I only actually went in with my friends and best because I don't want to lose their money. I thought it was like, you know, that's all, it lose my money. And then we almost did diet space actually. So I'd budgeted for three flights. I mean, technically, I didn't have a plan where I had to have the money for PayPal. I had like 180 million people paypal. And I thought, you know, I'll allocate half of that to space, and Tesla, and solar city. And that should be fine. I'll have 90 million, like this is lots. But then what happened is, things cost more and took longer than I thought. So I had a choice either with the rest of the money in or their company is going to die. It's like, so I put, I ended up paying all the money in and borrowing money from friends. Space X is alive, but it's going to be sweet, so it's Tesla. If things are just going a little bit the other way, both companies will be dead. And I had, like one of the most difficult choices I have ever faced in life was in 2008. I think I had maybe $30 million left, or $30 million left in 2008. I had two choices. I could put it all into one company, and then the other company would definitely die, or split it between the two companies. And if I split it between two companies, then both might die. And when you put your blood sweat in tears into creating something, building something, it's like a child. And so it's like, which one am I going to let one starve to death? You can bring myself to do it, so I split the money between two. I think we should have let them go through. When you had that third failure in a row, did you think I need to pack this in? Never. Why not? I don't ever give up. I mean, I'd have to be dead or completely incapacitated. If that fourth launch hadn't worked, that would have been it. We would have not had the resources to mount a fifth. You couldn't have gone out at that point. Yes, death would have been, I think, inevitable, because we did not have the resources to mount a fifth launch. I'm probably not the guy that most people would bet on. You win. It's like a little kid fighting a bunch of similar wrestlers. Usually the similar wrestlers win. We're all a little scrappy company, every now and again, little scrappy company wins. And I think this will be one of those times. The first set of things that can be done to make the future better. I think that a future where we are space-sparing civilization and out there among the stars, this is very exciting. This makes me look forward to the future. This makes me want that future. The things that need to be things that make you look forward to waking up in the morning. You wake up in the morning, you look forward to the day or to the future. The future where we are space-sparing civilization and out there among the stars, I think that's very exciting. That is the thing we want. Whereas if you knew we would not be a space-sparing civilization, but forever confined to Earth, this would not be a good future that would be very sad. I think there are two futures. And one future is we're out there among the stars. And things we read about and see in science fiction movies. And we're true. We're at these starships. And we're going to see what other planets alike. We're a multi-planet species in the scope and scale of consciousness is expanded across many civilizations and many planets and many star systems. This is a great future. This is a wonderful thing to me. And that's what we should strive for.